Hey everyone, my name is Steve and it's an honor to be here with you this week for this week's Gospel of Mark takeaway.
This week we're in the book of Mark, chapter 12, verses 18 through 44.
And we're looking at an example of where Jesus answered question after question from a group of people who were always trying to trap him.
Now I have a question for you.
Have you ever played chess?
it's definitely a thinking man's game.
Now many people have played chess and some of you may have played chess and checkers but as Jesus answers these questions here it seemed like he was playing chess and the religious leaders
Just leaders were playing checkers. I'll explain.
See, the religious leaders were always trying to trap Jesus. In the beginning of this chapter, they ask him a question on Caesar and taxes and he answers them. And then they continue to
I'm not going to tell you to bombard him with questions, but they don't realize that Jesus is the God who can't be trapped. And his answers don't always fall in the boxing
boxes that the scribes and the Pharisees want to put him in. They'll give him a question that has two sides to it and he will give a wiser third answer.
Or sometimes he'll even ask them a question that they can't even answer.
If you look with me at verse 24 in this text in Mark chapter 12, this is the beginning of an answer that Jesus gives on a question about marriage that's again designed to track
And he says this, And he says this,
"'Jesus answered and said to them, "'Are you not therefore mistaken, "'because you do not know the Scriptures, "'nor the power of God?'
He's completely right because they didn't realize that he is the authority and the power and the authority comes from him.
Now, I don't know if you've ever been trapped before. Maybe you've physically been trapped in a room or a closet, and if you're claustrophobic, you know that's a nightmare.
Maybe you've been trapped in an emotionally unhealthy relationship and that's no fun either. Maybe you've been trapped in an agreement. Maybe you've been verbally swindled.
But however you've been trapped, everyone knows that no one likes to be trapped. And if you think about that phrase, you know, that kind of is where the Pharisees are coming from. They are
They love to trap. And there's an old phrase that says hurt people.
hurt people.
Well, you could use that in this context to say trapped people
Trap people.
You know, when you're miserable, what do we usually want? A lot of times we want others to be miserable with us, and that's the Pharisees.
If we could catch them in a moment of honesty to admit exactly how they felt about the system that they had come up with, this legalistic system that they had devised, they were
They will probably tell you they were miserable trying to follow all these rules and regulations. And what they were trying to do is impose those same things on others and to trap
to trap Jesus in the midst of that.
But you know, John 8:36 says, "If the Son sets you free, then you're free indeed."
Even Genesis tells us about the freedom that we've been created with and the freedom that we've been given. And that freedom is not just a freedom to do whatever we want.
You know you go back to that example of a chess board those chess pieces can't just move exactly the way they want because that would be chaos and if we had the freedom just to go out
to go out and do whatever we wanted. That would also be chaos. But think about the way they were designed.
When those chess pieces on that board move in concert the way they were designed, they move with efficiency and things are beautiful. They work.
You know, when we move the way God designed us, when we exercise our freedom in the way that God designed us to, then things also in our lives are beautiful.
for when it lines up with what God wants for us, right?
You know, we watch Jesus craft stories and great examples with which to answer their questions, but he also almost had kind of like a condemnation
For those religious leaders who were always, again, thinking of themselves and trying to put a system on others, but also trying to put the honor and glory on them.
If you look later in Mark 12, verse 38, it says this, And the Lord said to him,
Then he said to them in his teaching, Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces.
The best seats in the synagogue and the best places at feasts who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make a long prayer.
And these will receive a greater condemnation.
You know, Jesus was saying, "Beware of those things." He was always pointing us towards humility, no matter what, whether he was answering a question or describing what not to do.
Like those religious leaders of that day.
And again, Jesus was always resetting the standard. See whether it was about matters of law or matters of the heart. Jesus was always resetting the standard, letting the
You're letting us know, hey, this may be how the religious leaders think.
And this may be how the culture thinks even today
We can take that example.
Jesus may say, "This may be how your culture thinks, but here's what I think about the issue. Here's the Father's heart on the issue." And that's what I want. And even if it takes the action to un-
a new level. He may say, you know, you may say this is the way to do a certain thing. The religious leaders always had plenty of ways to outline actions to take.
to take, but Jesus would say, "But I'm after your heart."
And today I think we can take that same example and say it's not about the action, it's about the heart. And instead of trying to trick and trap or to work our way out of things, how can we align with
with what Jesus wants us to do in our own lives.
Let's pray.
Lord, we thank you so much.
Because, Lord, you are the God who has the right answers for the questions that we have. Sometimes very complex questions of life. And Lord, we want to line up with your standard.
standard, we want to line up with your heart.
And Lord, we pray if there's just anyone who is watching that feels trapped, that has been stuck in something for a really long time and doesn't see a way out.
The way out, Lord, I just pray that you would remind them that you are the gateway to freedom.
God, just help them as you work the Holy Spirit in their life to help them know that the way to freedom is through you and whatever it is, whether it's a relationship or whether it's a binding of
agreement that they feel they can't get out of, that it has them trapped, Lord, I pray that you would come and work in their specific situation today. And Lord, remind us that you are the way.
You are the way to freedom. If we look to you, I will be free. And we pray all these things in your name. Amen.
Thanks so much for watching today.